Documentation Types
===================

There are three basic types of documentations:

- [tutorials](tutorials.md) (aka quick start)
- topical guides
- reference (aka API documentation)

None of these three types is a substitute for any other one. They are
*complementary*.

Great blog post about difference between these three basic types is available
[as Jacobian blog post](http://jacobian.org/writing/what-to-write/). Below, we
quickly scratch the differences.

Tutorials
---------

Tutorials are like a front door or a shop window. They demonstrate how your
project "feels". They're important from marketing point of view.

A great example of tutorials are interactive sessions. See [try
Ruby](http://tryruby.org/levels/1/challenges/0) as a role model.

Guides
------

Guides are meat of documentation and they should:

- be comprehensive,
- show vast majority of possible options (but should not show *all* possible
  options -- that is the task for reference),
- show how all concepts fit together,
- answer the question "why?".

References
----------

References should:

- answer the question "how?".

Reference can be autogenerated from code (i.e. from docstrings).

Example Applications
--------------------

Code can be documentation. Example applications and environment are great
examples. Some developers start from such example instead of reading
documentation. Example apps are also easier and faster to create.

A role model of such examples is [braintree](https://github.com/braintree).

What is not documentation?
--------------------------

- [Presentations](presentations.md) are not documentation!



